[MUSIC PLAYING]
EIJI KITAMURA: My name is Eiji.
I'm a developer advocate
working on identity
on the web at Google.
So do you have a phone today?
Right?
Everyone of you here
should have a phone.
So owning a phone
means that each of you
have your own
personal phone number.
Interesting thing is that
even if you own a phone, maybe
you're not making a phone
call every day, right?
You still call it a phone.
And the phone numbers are still
playing a very important role
in your daily life.
For example, phone
numbers can be
used as a digital identifier
and a personal communication
channel.
Some web services
use phone numbers
to create online accounts
or to build a social graph.
As a personal communication
channel, of course,
you make phone calls.
And you can send text messages.
And there are a lot
of online services
that heavily rely
on phone numbers,
especially as a way to
send SMS text messages.
These services are using
SMS to let users sign up,
help users recover
their accounts,
increase user security
with two-step verification,
or confirm payments.
This kind of SMS
usage is very popular,
especially in countries like
India, but also worldwide.
In a typical user
experience, an SMS
is used to deliver a
one-time password, OTP.
The user verifies ownership
of their phone number
by passing the OTP
back to the service.
But the challenge is this
can introduce some friction
to their user experience.
To enter an OTP, the user has to
open the SMS up, then remember
or copy the OTP
from the message,
go back to the website, and
enter that into the form.
It's so easy to make mistakes.
And sometimes you have
to request a resend.
That's why we are proposing
a new API called SMS Receiver
API.
Web developers can
use the SMS Receiver
API to let the browser
receive the SMS message,
extract the OTP, and enter
the OTP on behalf of the user.
For end users, entering the OTP
can be as simple as one tap.
And we have a few websites that
are experimenting with this API
already.
Swiggy, India's largest
on-demand food delivery
platform, achieved a
sign-in success rate of 88%.
This number is on par with
that of their native app.
Myntra, a fashion
e-commerce player in India,
decreased the drop-off rate
while signing in by 38%.
Oyo, a hotel booking service,
succeeded in reducing time
to log-in by 42%.
These are all
impressive numbers.
And there are more companies
trying out this API.
Now, let me talk about the code.
Before the website
can receive an SMS,
you have to know that
user's phone number
so that you can send a message.
If you are using an input
tag, my recommendation
is to use auto-complete
equal tel.
That way, the browser can help
the user auto fill their phone
number.
Giving your website the
ability to send an SMS
might seem a bit scary at first.
What if someone builds a
bot and spam random numbers?
To mitigate such abuse, you can
use a service like reCAPTCHA.
Especially with
reCAPTCHA V3, that
lets you identify bots
without requiring the user
to check a box or
solve a puzzle,
like picking traffic
light images.
To send SMS messages,
you can use your existing
infrastructure or just rely
on a third-party service
like Twilio, Nexmo, Telesign,
or another SMS gateway.
Using the SMS
Receiver API itself
is as simple as
one line of code.
When you call
navigator SMS receive,
the browser waits for an SMS.
Behind the scenes, we are using
Android's Native SMS Retriever
API to access the
incoming message.
Chrome is one of the
consumers of the API.
And the message will not
be delivered to the website
unless it meets
certain conditions.
The text message
needs to include
the URL of the origin to
which the SMS is sent,
Chrome's application
hash and the OTP.
However, as we are experimenting
with this feature and the API
design it's subject to change.
I won't go into detail
about how to format the SMS.
You can check the latest
format in the article
I will show you later.
When an SMS is received and
meets all the conditions,
a button sheet appears
in the browser.
And the user can grant
the browser permission
to access the text message.
This permission is required for
every receipt of a new message.
This means the browser
won't be able to read
SMS messages without the
use of explicit permission.
In the current API design, you
will obtain the entire text
message.
So you can use a regular
expression to extract the OTP.
After extracting the
OTP, you can either
enter it in the
form for the user
to submit or possibly
directly to the server side
verification.
To learn more about the
SMS Receiver API, please
go to google/smsreceiverapi.
The article has details
about former conventions
and how to implement the API.
The SMS Receiver API
is still experimental.
You can use it under
origin trial, which
means you need to submit
a request to whitelist
your domain, accepting that the
API may change in the future.
The article has
information about how
to sign up to the origin trial.
I bet you have tons of
questions about this API.
And I hope we have successfully
addressed most of them
in this article.
But let me highlight one
outstanding question.
Is it safe to use SMS as a
way to authenticate our user?
It's a great question.
The short answer is be careful.
Browsers enabling
this API doesn't
mean that we recommend you
to stop using the existing
way of authentication.
The reality is that
many websites already
use SMS as a way for
their authentication
with their users.
However, phone numbers
are known to be hijackable
and to be recycled
by phone carriers.
In some cases, users
have been the victims
of SMS phishing attacks.
We recommend using SMS as an
additional factor for something
else, for example, a
password for authentication.
But in a world where you
can expect many users
to have a biometric
sensor on their device,
we suggest something
even better,
which is Web Authentication API.
In other words, WebAuthn.
We covered WebAuthn at Google
I/O this year and last year,
but I would like to recap
a little bit about it
in case there are people
not familiar with it.
WebAuthn is a
standard browser API
that enables strong
authentication on the web.
It's supported by all major
browsers, at least partially.
By using a piece
of hardware, which
we call the
authenticator, end users
can really search for and
authenticate with a service
much more safely than before.
WebAuthn is based on a
public key cryptography.
A user can register an
authenticator with a website
by generating a
key pair, keeping
the private key in
the authenticator
and handing the public
key to the website.
Upon signing in,
the authenticator
can generate a
unique signature so
that the user can
prove to the website
that authenticator is present.
In the previous session,
Emily showed you
how Chrome tries to ensure the
user is on the genuine site.
WebAuthn allows you to provide
an extra layer of safety
for users.
Because the keeper is bound
to the website's origin,
even if a user ends up
on the phishing website,
that phishing
website will not be
able to make the user generate
a valid signature, which
saves their users.
Now, I would like to talk
about two primary user
experiences using WebAuthn.
They are two-factor
authentication
and re-authentication.
Let me start with
two-factor authentication.
Because an authenticator
can prove your presence
by combining it
with a password, you
can perform two-factor
authentication for users.
That's the basic idea.
Let's have a look at
a real world example.
GitHub offers two-factor
authentication as an option.
You start by entering your
username and a password.
When you see this screen,
get your security key.
A security key is one form
factor of authenticators
I mentioned earlier.
Click the button, and you'll
see a browser's native dialog.
Use your security key and
perform a gesture on it.
The gesture depends on the
authenticator you are using.
But for typical security
keys, simply touch it.
If the security key is already
registered to the service,
you are signed in.
Imagine how it compares to
entering an OTP manually.
It's much easier.
So how do I register
a security key?
To register one on GitHub,
go to the security page.
You'll be asked to name the
security key you are adding.
Name it and press Add.
Then you can register your
security key by touching it.
Now, your security
is registered.
You may add multiple
security keys as backups.
So naming it helps you
find the right one.
Imagine if you lose your
security key or break it
or even lost.
You can revoke the key from
here and invalidate it.
So how effective
are second factors?
Here's a comparison
between SMS OTP
as a second factor and security
key as a second factor.
As you can see, SMS
OTP is not perfect
against targeted attacks, while
security key protect users
completely.
Targeted attacks are a
specially crafted phishing email
aiming at a certain company or
an organization, for example.
So two-factor authentication
with a security key
works quite well.
Now, how do we implement
two-factor authentication using
WebAuthn?
The first thing you should do
is to check whether WebAuthn
is available on the browser.
You can do so by checking
if PublicKeyCredential
is available.
To register a new
credential call
navigator.credentials.create.
This will cause the
browser to start
waiting for a user's gesture
on the connected authenticator.
Upon the authenticator's
response,
you will receive a
credential, which
includes a public key and
an ID for the credential.
Send a credential to
the server and store it
for future authentication.
Now that you have your user's
authenticator successfully
registered, how does
the authentication work?
After the user enters their
username and their password,
you will ask for
a second factor.
Use navigator.credentials.get
for authentication.
For this call, you
must retrieve all
of the user's registered
credential IDs from the server
and provide them to the
browser in allowCredentials.
That way, the browser can detect
which authenticator to use.
Again, the user performs a
gesture on the authenticator.
Then you will
receive a credential
that contains a signature.
The most important
part of WebAuthn
is to verify the signature
on the server side.
You should use a FIDO
server to do this validation
on the back-end.
I would recommend that you use
a trusted third-party service
or a FIDO server.
I will come back to this
topic later in this session.
I have mentioned authenticators
many times in this session
so far.
But what exactly
are authenticators?
And what kind of
authenticators do you
need to have on hand
for development?
Or assume users might be using.
For two-factor
authentication, users
can use authenticators that
are marked as U2F or FIDO2.
As I said, security keys are
the most typical form factor
for two-factor authentication.
They are also known as
roaming authenticators.
Roaming authenticators can
be hooked into your computer
or smartphone using
USB, BLE, or NFC.
One caveat about security
keys is that many of them
come with a metal plate on it.
Some people might think that
this plate is a fingerprint
sensor.
But in many cases, it is not.
When you are buying
a security key,
please be careful about that.
By the way, how many of you
here have a security key?
A lot of you.
But I see some of you don't.
You learned about
WebAuthn today,
and you're excited
to try it, right?
But you don't have
a security key.
You need one, don't you?
So good news is that we have
this security key to give away.
Please visit the
developer sandbox.
There is an identity, security,
and privacy developer sandbox.
So you can go there
to pick yours.
[APPLAUSE]
Thank you.
And there is another kind of
authenticator built directly
into your computer or smartphone
called platform authenticator.
Platform authenticators
are more consumer
friendly than roaming
authenticator or security
keys because you don't have
to purchase a separate device.
You don't have to worry
about carrying it around.
And they are a part of the
device you use every day.
And many platform authenticators
come with a biometric sensor,
such as a fingerprint sensor
or a facial recognition sensor.
Users can also use the
platform's screen log feature
to verify their identity.
Some people may
worry that this mean
that their fingerprint
is sent to that website
and may somehow be stolen.
Right?
But don't worry.
Important secret, such as
biometric data or screen log
patterns are stored
only locally,
which means user verification
is done entirely on the device.
We call this local
user verification.
This also means that every new
device that the user signs in
on must be registered.
Platform authenticators
that have the local user
verification ability, or
I'll just say most of them,
are specifically
called user verifying
platform authenticators.
So the second use case of
WebAuthn is re-authentication.
Re-authentication
is a user experience
where a user is
already signed in,
but gets a request
to authenticate again
when they come
back to the website
after the session
is expired or when
a sensitive operation,
such as changing a password
or making a payment,
is being performed.
A common way to perform re-auth
is to ask the user's password
again.
But with WebAuthn
and user verifying
platform authenticator,
the user experience
can be really snappy.
Let's see how Yahoo!
Japan integrated
re-auth user experience.
When you are signing in,
you start with a username.
After you submit your username,
the browser's native dialog
pops up.
The user can verify
their identity locally
with a fingerprint
sensor, for example.
Once verified, you
are already signed in.
This fancy UX is also
preceded by a registration.
Because Yahoo!
Japan is already passwordless,
I'm signing into their service
using SMS OTP
without a password.
After successfully signing in
with your username and an OTP,
will be prompted to
register the device.
Again, perform local
user verification.
Just like we did for the
two-factor authentication
with GitHub, the
service asks you
to name the device so that
you can identify it if you
need to remove it later on.
And your device is registered.
Moving forward, you can use
this device to log-in to Yahoo!
Japan using local
user verification.
By the way, have
you got a Pixel 4?
Some of you, right?
Pixel 4 has a new shiny
facial recognition capability.
And some of you might have tried
it with WebAuthn with Pixel 4.
And so that it doesn't work yet.
But the good news
is that starting
from Chrome 79 and that update
to the Google Play services,
it will be possible.
And I'm going to demo
it for you right now.
OK, so what I'm
going to show you
is a re-auth user experience
at passwords.google.com.
Passwords.google.com
is a page where
you can view the
password you stored
to Chrome, if there are
synchronized with your Google
account.
As you open an individual
password entry,
you'll be asked to do a re-auth.
And if you are using a
user verifying platform
authenticator,
like Pixel phones,
you will do a local
user verification.
So let me try one of the
passwords here by pressing it.
Intentionally, I'm not going to
show my face at first, right?
So by pressing, it's asking
to verify my identity.
By pressing it, it shows
a fancy UI with a face.
But because I was away and not
showing my face, it failed.
But let me try again with my
face revealed to the phone.
See that guy winked?
It's cute.
And I'm confirmed
and successfully
able to view my password.
OK, go back to the
slides, please.
Yeah?
So it's a very user experience.
You don't have to
type much, right?
type your password.
And with local
user verification,
we have seen about 63%
improvement in time
to log in comparing to
that re-authentication
with a password.
It has significant
user experience benefit
for end users.
And here's how to implement
this feature on your website.
After a feature
detection, check if a user
has a user verifying platform
authenticator using a function
called isUserVerifyingP
latformAuthenticatorAvailable.
That is very long function name.
I believe this is
one of the longest--
not one-- the longest
function name in browser API.
But anyway, with this
check, you ensure
that the user's environment
is capable of the re-auth user
experience you are
about to perform.
Call navigator
credentials.create
to register that user verifying
platform authenticator.
This is the same function
you called to register
two-factor authentication.
But you need to specify a
couple of specific options.
Set authenticatorAttachment
to platform.
This restricts registration
to platform authenticators.
Roaming authenticators
won't be registered.
Set userVerification
to required.
This ensures that the
authenticator being registered
is capable of local
user verification.
As soon as the
function is called,
the browser starts to wait
for a gesture on the platform
authenticator, in this case,
local user verification.
When you get the
returned credential,
send it to the server
and store the credential,
just like you've done for
two-factor authentication.
To allow the user
to re-authenticate,
you also need to store
the credential ID
on the client side.
You can do this with using
a cookie or local storage.
And the registration is done.
When the user comes back, run
the same feature detection
as you did during registration,
however, in this case,
make sure that the
user can fall back
to use other means
of user verification,
for example, using a password.
To authenticate the user, call
navigator.credentials.get.
For this call, fit the
option, use the verification
to be true.
And in allowCredentials,
include the credential
ID you stored locally
during your registration.
As soon as you
receive a credential,
make sure to verify
it on the server side.
Once verified, the user
is successfully signed in.
This is how you implement
a re-authentication user
experience using WebAuthn.
You can start learning
about web authentication
from google/fido.
If you're interested in more
nitty-gritty about implementing
WebAuthn, there are some
awesome documentation
written by folks at Duo
Security at webauthn.guide.
If you're interested in
implementing the re-auth user
experience, go to
Google/WebAuthn Re-auth Code
Lab, which I hope it will
help you ramp-up with learning
WebAuthn.
Regarding the FIDO server,
there are quite a few solutions
available in the wild.
You can check FIDO
Alliance Certified Servers
on their official website.
Also, there's a list
of open source servers
and other resources as well.
We'd like to also collect
your interest in a cloud
solution for FIDO servers.
Please drop a line
on SSL at google.com
or just visit the developer
sandbox and let us know.
Let me recap.
In this session, you have
learned two technologies.
SMS Receiver API eliminates the
friction of entering SMS OTP.
It's under origin trial.
We are looking for your
feedback on the API.
We recommend two user
experience flow using WebAuthn.
One is two-factor
authentication,
which works best with security
keys or roaming authenticators.
The other is
re-authentication, which
works best with user verifying
platform authenticators.
I and a bunch of
experts on this area
will be waiting for you
at the developer sandbox.
Please come and
say hi, and please
give us feedback about our APIs
and ask questions, not just
to pick up the security key.
I hope you'll enjoy the
rest of Chrome Dev Summit.
Thank you.
[APPLAUSE]
[MUSIC PLAYING]